The slip2plip Terminal
----------------------

The serial port of the slip2plip firmware is usually used to transmit IP
traffic from/to your PC. The firmware also allows you to enter a command
mode and then you can talk to the plip2slip device via the serial port. You
can query status and statistics information of previous IP connections and
give commands to alter its behavior.

You can use a terminal program to talk to plip2slip every time it is not
connected via SLIP (see contrib/slattach/README for more details).

1. Choose a Terminal Program
----------------------------

There are many terminal programs available. You can choose your favorite but
keep two things in mind:

  * The terminal must support the high baud rate of 5.000.000 

  * The terminal must NOT alter the DTR level on startup or exit (Otherwise
    the Arduino will reset and all previous information on the device is lost)
    
  * The terminal must support RTS/CTS hardware handshaking

As a portable console-based (i.e. non GUI) solution I can recommend
miniterm.py, a small python terminal program available in the PySerial package
[1]. Actually, this is a library to enhance Python with commands to control
the serial port and miniterm.py is only an example on how to use the lib, but
it really works great!

As a convenience for Mac OS X or Linux user I have prepared a script called
p2sterm in contrib/terminal that launches miniterm.py with the correct
parameters. Just make sure you have only a single serial device connected
(i.e. the arduino).

See the supplied documentation on how to install it on your platform.

[1] http://pyserial.sourceforge.net/


2. Using miniterm.py
--------------------

On Ubuntu Linux you simply install the "python-serial" package:

  > sudo apt-get install python-serial

Then you can directly call miniterm.py as follows:

  > miniterm.py --dtr=1 --rtscts -b 5000000 /dev/ttyUSB0

This assumes that your Arduino registered the ttyUSB0 serial port.
See the output of dmesg when attaching the Arduino for details.

On windows you would call it like this:

  > python.exe miniterm.py --dtr=1 --rtscts -b 5000000 com8

You have to find out what com port the Arduino is attached to.

You can leave miniterm.py at any time by pressing Ctrl + ]


3. Enter/Leave Command Mode
---------------------------

After a reset the plip2slip device automatically enters IP mode and therefore
does interpret all serial input as packet data received from the PC. In this
mode you cannot talk to the device via serial. You first have to enter the
command mode.

Command mode is entered with the typical sequence also used in Hayes modems:

  * Pause for at least 500 ms and send no character
  * Enter three plus '+' characters with no delay in between
  * Pause for at least 500 ms again

If command mode is entered the device answers with 'OK'.
Now you can enter your commands and press Return after each one.

You can leave the command mode by entering the 'x' (exit) command and then
press return.

Additionally, the command mode has a time out: If you enter no command for at
least 5 seconds then the command mode is automatically left.

After exiting the command mode the device prints 'BYE' and after that returns
to data mode and is ready to transfer IP packets again. Now its safe to attach
your SLIP device again.


4. Commands
-----------

  'x' - Exit

    Exit the command mode. After sending 'BYE' the command mode is left and
    normal stream operation continues.

  'v' - Show version

    Print the current version of the plip2slip firmware.

  's' - Show statistics

    The device keeps record of transferred packets and bytes. Also dropped
    packets and transfer errros are recorded. You can show a summary of all
    stored values with this command. Please note that these values are lost
    after a reset of the device. So make sure to connect the terminal without
    altering DTR on your arduino.

  'sr' - Reset the statistics

    Reset all values kept in the statistics. This allows to begin counting the
    values starting from zero without doing a reset first.

  'b' - Show last benchmark results

    Some modes of the device perform some benchmarks. This command shows the
    results of the last benchmark.

  'p' - Show the device parameters

    The device stores some parameters that alter its behavior. This command
    shows all parameters with their current values.

  'pr' - Reset all paramters to factory defaults
  
    Reset all paramaters to sensible default values.

  'pl' - Load all parameters from the EEPROM
  
   Load the parameter set from the persistent storage in the EEPROM.
  
  'ps' - Save all parameters to the EEPROM

   Save the parameter set to the persistent storage in the EEPROM. This
   ensures that the parameters will survive a reset.

  'm' <n> - Select a new device mode

   The device can operate in different modes. The modes are numbered starting
   from zero. Give the mode digit right next to the 'm' command.
   
   The following modes are available:
   
      0 - Transport
      1 - Ping PLIP
      2 - Ping SLIP
      3 - Only PLIP Rx
      4 - Only SLIP Rx

  'f' <n> - Enable/Disable Fake Transmit

   Some modes support fake transmits, i.e. they perform the receive operation
   but do not actually send the packet.
   
   Enter 'f0' to disable or 'f1' to enable fake mode.

  'l' - Show the error log

   For diagnosis purposes the device records the last error conditions that
   occurred. Call this command to see the last errors if there were any.

   Note: This is mainly an internal feature. You will need knowledge of the
   source code to understand the error codes.
  
EOF